---
title: 'Supplementary data: Antiretroviral therapy persistence among treatment-experienced
  people with HIV and mental health disorders and/or substance use disorders in the
  USA (2017–2024): a retrospective cohort study'
names: Uche Mordi, Mary J Christoph, Benjamin Chastek, Travis Lim, Neia Prata Menezes,
  Sunil Majethia, Lisa Le, Joshua Cohen
tags:
- Figshare
venue: Figshare
link: https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.32085102
categories: Publications

---

*{{ page.names }}*

**{{ page.venue }}**

{% include display-publication-links.html pub=page %}

## Abstract

<b>These are peer-reviewed supplementary materials for the article</b><b> </b><b>Antiretroviral therapy persistence among treatment-experienced people with HIV and mental health disorders and/or substance use disorders in the USA (2017–2024): a retrospective cohort study</b><b>'</b><b> </b><b>published in the</b><b> </b><b><i>Journal of Comparative Effectiveness Research.</i></b><b>Supplementary Table 1:</b> ICD-10-CM and Revenue Codes Used to Identify US PWH With MHDs/SUDs Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024)<b>Supplementary Table 2:</b> Baseline Covariates Used in IPTW Prior to Nonpersistence Analyses <b>Supplementary Table 3:</b> Overlap Between US PWH With an MHD/SUD and PDC &lt;85% Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024) (Unweighted) <b>Supplementary Table 4:</b> Pre- and Post-IPTW SMDs for Sociodemographic and CCI Covariates Among US PWH With an MHD/SUD Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024) <b>Supplementary Table 5:</b> Pre- and Post-IPTW SMDs for Sociodemographic and CCI Covariates Among US PWH With PDC &lt;85% Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024) <b>Supplementary Table 6:</b> Baseline Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of US PWH With an MHD/SUD Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024) (Weighted) <b> Supplementary Table 7:</b> Baseline Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of US PWH With PDC &lt;85% Receiving B/F/TAF or a Comparator Regimen (2017–2024) (Weighted)<b> Supplementary Figure 1: </b>Study design.<b>Aim:</b> There are limited studies of antiretroviral therapy persistence among people with HIV (PWH) who have a mental health disorder and/or substance use disorder (MHD/SUD). This real-world study analyzed persistence among treatment-experienced PWHwho had anMHD/SUD or suboptimal adherence (proportion of days covered [PDC] &lt; 85%). <b>Materials &amp; methods:</b> In this retrospective cohort study of claims from the Optum Research Database, nonpersistence (i.e., discontinuation, switch, add-on or death) was assessed in treatment-experienced PWH who switched to or restarted an antiretroviral therapy regimen of interest (i.e., bictegravir [B]/emtricitabine [F]/tenofovir alafenamide [TAF], dolutegravir [DTG]/lamivudine [3TC], DTG/abacavir [ABC]/3TC, DTG + F/TAF, DTG + F/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [TDF] or cabotegravir + rilpivirine) from 1 July 2017 to 30 November 2023. Baseline characteristics across regimens were balanced by inverse probability treatment weighting. Kaplan–Meier analysis was conducted on weighted data to examine regimen persistence at 12 months. Adjusted Cox proportional hazards models assessed nonpersistence throughout follow-up. <b>Results:</b> Overall, 14,826 PWH were eligible and treatment experienced; 5310 had an MHD/SUD and 409 had PDC &lt; 85% during follow-up. Among treatment-experienced PWH who received B/F/TAF, persistence at 12 months was 80.3% for those with an MHD/SUD and 78.6% for those with PDC &lt; 85%; this was greater compared with PWH who received DTG/3TC (76.7% and 70.8%), DTG/ABC/3TC (68.9% and 66.3%), DTG + F/TAF (62.4% and 58.9%) and DTG + F/TDF (36.7% and 41.9%; all p &lt; 0.05). Compared with B/F/TAF, nonpersistence risk was greater with DTG/3TC, DTG/ABC/3TC, DTG + F/TAF and DTG + F/TDF in the MHD/SUD (all p &lt; 0.05) and PDC &lt; 85% (all p &lt; 0.05 except DTG/3TC) groups. <b>Conclusion: </b>These results indicate that B/F/TAF may offer greater likelihood of persistence and emphasize the importance of regimen selection to optimize outcomes in treatment-experienced PWH with an MHD/SUD or suboptimal adherence.